▮ PREREQUISITES Basic level comfort in an online environment i.e. posting comments, attaching ﬁles, uploading photos, participating in web conferences. Online Teaching and Learning Dr. Donna Murdoch Oﬃce: Zankel 201 Email: murdoch@tc.edu Skype: DonnaM123 | Twitter: @donnamurdoch Virtual Oﬃce Hours: By Appointment ORLD5063 | F ALL 2021 Synchronous Sessions via Zoom Thursdays at 6 PM EST https://teacherscollege.zoom.us/j/95870633905? pwd=TVI1Q3AxbGJxY1psaUQ4dWo2YWxEUT0 9 Instructor Meeting Times and Days Home Curriculum Policies In this course we will explore online teaching and learning - new theories and research that inform best practices in online learning and “participative culture,” the history and evolution of online learning, and planning and designing an online course. ▮ COURSE DESCRIPTION By the end of this course, participants should be able to: ▮ LEARNING OBJECTIVES OF THE COURSE Assignment Syllabus (may be subject to change) Adult Learning & Leadership Apply adult learning principles to online teaching and learning Evaluate the use of several synchronous and asynchronous tools Demonstrate the use of instructor presence and the importance of connection. Examine both traditional and newer adult learning theories Establish a learning community and nurture interaction among peers Design one module of a fully online course unit Assessment Resources ▮ CREDITS ALLOCATED This course is designated 3 Credit Hours unless otherwise arranged with the Registrar. ▮ REQUIREMENTS A computer with a working web camera, a headset with microphone, and conferencing capabilities. If you can use your computer for Skype or Google Hangouts, then you are ready. I do prefer you use headphones during our conferences. Outside noises can be disruptive to the class, even when minimal. We use the web cameras and everyone can see each other, so be sure you have one available for the live sessions! Module T opics Learning Activities Assignment Due Pre-Module Course Overview 1. Introduce Yourself to Your Colleagues via FlipGrid 9/16/2021 1 Orientation to Digital Ecosystems Past and Present 1. Create Your Blog 2. First Blog Post 3. Join and Post a Link to Your Blog to Canvas Discussion Board 4. Peer to Peer Comments on Blog Posts 9/16/2021 2 Considerations for Facilitating Online 1. Digital Tool Assignment: Animoto 2. Blog Post 2 9/30/2021 3 Instructor Presence Online 1. Digital Tool Assignment: Adobe Spark 2. Blog Post 3 10/14/2021 4 Innovations in Online Learning 1. Digital Tool Assignment: Transmediation (details in the Module) 2. Group 1 Presentation (10/28) 10/28/2021 5 Ubiquitous Learning 1. Case Study 2. Group 2 Presentation (11/11) Group and Final Project Work 6 Evaluation of Online Learning 1. Group 3 Presentation (11/18) Group and Final Project Work Final Projects 1. Group 4 Presentation (12/9) 2. Final Project Posted to Discussion Thread by December 17 12/17/2021 Course Review and Wrap Up 1. Peer to Peer Comments on other work December 23rd 12/23/2020 Home Curriculum Policies Assignment Assessment Resources Adult Learning & Leadership Assignment 1 % of Grade Due Date Participation in Online Discussions ● Replies to posted discussion prompts, posted at the beginning of each two week course unit ● Replies to peers, throughout the course unit. ● Overall presence, discussion, participation ● Blog posts, 500 word or more responses to a reﬂective prompt. ● Comments on the blogs of at least 2 colleagues per two-week course unit. Participation In Group Activity Assignment ● Students will be put into groups and in charge of creating and delivering an in-class activity. Group assignments and details of requirements will provided in Module 3 Digital Tool Activities ● Certain modules will have a Digital Tool for students to try and create a deliverable. Students will post a link to their creations in the respective discussion board thread and provide peer to peer comments 50% Ongoing Assignment 2 % of Grade Due Date Attendance in Synchronous Session 20% W eekly , Thursdays Assignment 3 % of Grade Due Date Final Project ● Design one module of an online course. ● Projects will be presented posted virtually in canvas discussion ● Presentations should be 5-7 minutes in length ● Each project should also have a complete syllabus for the entire course you are proposing and not just the one module in which you emphasize in your presentation ● You will be asked to comment and provide feedback to 3 of your peer’s projects before the end of the course 30% Part I. December 17th and Part II. December 23rd ▮ ASSIGNMENTS Home Curriculum Policies Assignment Assessment Resources Adult Learning & Leadership A+ Rare performance. Reserved for highly exceptional, rare achievement. A Excellent. Outstanding achievement. A- Excellent work but not quite outstanding. B+ Very good. Solid achievement expected of most graduate students. B Good. Acceptable achievement. B- Acceptable achievement but below what is generally expected of graduate students. C+ Fair achievement, above minimally acceptable level. C Fair achievement but only minimally acceptable. C-Very low performance. The records of students receiving such grades are subject to review. This review may result in the denial of permission to register for further study at Teachers College. No more than 3 points of C- may be credited toward any degree, certiﬁcate or diploma. Students completing requirements for more than one degree or diploma may count 3 points of C- toward only one such award. Students who accumulate 8 points or more with grades of C- or lower may not continue study at the College and will not receive a degree or diploma. PPassed. The “P” grade indicates passing performance in certain courses that only provide for dichotomous evaluation. Alternatively, by arrangement with the instructor as outlined in the Grading Options section below, students can request pass/fail grading in courses that normally lead to letter grades. Once an instructor submits a ﬁnal pass/fail grade for a course, the transcripts of students in that course will not carry any other type of grade. The College does not issue supplementary statements on student performance in the course. FFailure. The records of students receiving such grades are subject to review. This review may result in the denial of permission to register for further study at Teachers College. Students who accumulate 8 points or more with grades of C- or lower may not continue study at the College and will not receive a degree or diploma. Students usually may not repeat a failed course unless it is required. When the course is required, the students may re-register and obtain a satisfactory grade. The previous F grade remains on the transcript. ▮ BASIS OF GRADE DETERMINATION ▮ ASSESSMENTS Grades in this class will be reﬂective of completion and level of eﬀort put into assignments listed above. Late work? It is hard to keep up if you fall behind because the class is based on participation, but life happens. Just let me know in advance if there will be delays. Home Curriculum Policies Assignment Assessment Resources Adult Learning & Leadership ▮ BIBLIOGRAPHIC AND OTHER RESOURCES The following texts are highly recommended on the topic of Online Teaching and Learning. However, the majority of literature and supplemental content will be accessible directly from the Modules in PDF Format. *Teaching Machines - The History of Personalized Learning* by Audrey Watters (Links to an external site.) Both past colleagues of mine, MaryBeth Hertz.) (Head of Instructional Technology at Friends School in Philadelphia and author) and Meeno Rami (former teacher at Science Leadership Academy in Philadelphia and now head of Education Product at Microsoft, including Minecraft Learning) will be facilitating a book club on Twitter during the whole semester. Additional Recommended Books: Teaching Online: A Guide to Theory, Research, and Practi ce (Tech.edu: A Hopkins Series on Education and Technology) 1st Edition. Clair Major Howell, 2015 ($28.45 on Amazon) Participatory Culture in a Networked Era: A Conversation on Youth, Learning, Commerce, and Politics. Henry Jenkins, danah boyd, Mimi Ito, 2015. ($18.95 on Amazon) Though this book is geared toward young adults and teens, networked culture is very important for a full understanding of all online learning. Nobody explains it better than this trio. Teaching in a Digital Age: Guidelines for Designing Teaching and Learning . A.W. (Tony) Bates. Free Electronic Book – April 2015 http://opentextbc.ca/teachinginadigitalage/ Tony Bates is arguably the most experienced distance learning researcher and practitioner in the world, and when he retired he wrote this book with a world of collaborators. It was open as he was writing it. He published one chapter at a time, posted it for collaboration and insights, and adapted each time. It is a jewel, and we will read select chapters from the ﬁnal (free) publication. Home Curriculum Policies Assignment Assessment Resources Adult Learning & Leadership ▮ COMMUNICATION STRATEGY Contact Donna ( murdoch@tc.edu ) or Josh ( jld2225@tc.columbia.edu ) You are strongly encouraged to utilize the Student Questions Forum on the course site for general questions about the course or its content. Posting your general questions to the Student Questions Forum allows other students to learn from their peers’ responses and to post follow-up questions which pertain to the initial inquiry. You should feel comfortable responding to each other, answering posted questions, or providing feedback. This practice will also help me to manage the volume of emails I receive about similar questions from other students. I will respond to posts and inquiries within 24 hours, if they are made on a weekday. Questions posted during the weekend will receive a reply on the next workday. Generally, during the week (Monday through Friday), you can expect a reply within 24 hours. On the weekends, you can usually expect a reply within 48 hours. Response time to email inquiries: If you have questions that speciﬁcally apply to you (e.g. feedback you’ve received for an assignment), you can email me directly instead of posting it to the student questions forum. I will respond to emails typically with 48 hours during the business week (Monday through Friday) and 72 hours during the weekend. Response time for feedback on assignments: I will typically provide feedback for assignments within a week or two of the submission due date. You will receive feedback for smaller assignments closer to one week after the assignment due date and larger assignments will likely take closer to two weeks after the due date. Continued on next page Home Curriculum Policies Assignment Assessment Resources Adult Learning & Leadership ▮ TC POLICIES Privacy Students who receive or are provided access to a recording of a class may not download the recording to a computer or other electronic device on which it would be accessible to others and may not distribute the recording or any portion or transcript of it to anyone else. We are part of a learning community and students must respect each other’s privacy. Students may talk about personal or sensitive topics and it is important to the course that we have a safe space to share openly. If a student is found to have shared a recording in violation of this rule, the student will be subject to sanctions for academic and general misconduct, including a failing grade for this course. The instructor has the option of sharing the class session recordings with other members of your class. Any other use of the recording will require your expressed written permission. Accommodations The College will make reasonable accommodations for persons with documented disabilities. Students are encouraged to contact the Oﬃce of Access and Services for Individuals with Disabilities (OASID) for information about registration. You can reach OASID by email at oasid@tc.columbia.edu, stop by 301 Zankel Building or call 212-678-3689. Services are available only to students who have registered and submit appropriate documentation. As your instructor, I am happy to discuss speciﬁc needs with you as well. Please report any access related concerns about instructional material to OASID and to me as your instructor. Incomplete Grades For the full text of the Incomplete Grade policy please refer to the Incomplete Grades policy . Student Responsibility for Monitoring TC email account Students are expected to monitor their TC email accounts. For the full text of the Student Responsibility for Monitoring TC email account please refer to Student Responsibility for Monitoring TC Email Account . Religious Observance It is the policy of Teachers College to respect its members’ observance of their major religious holidays. Where academic scheduling conﬂicts prove unavoidable, students will not be penalized for absences due to religious reasons, and course instructors will work with students on alternative means for satisfying academic requirements. If students and instructors cannot reach a suitable arrangement, they should consult the appropriate Program Director or Department Chair. If necessary, students or instructors may take the matter to the Oﬃce of the Provost for additional appeal. Please see the Religious Observance policy . Sexual Harassment and Violence Reporting Teachers College is committed to maintaining a safe environment for students. Because of this commitment and because of federal and state regulations, we must advise you that if you tell any of your instructors about sexual harassment or gender-based misconduct involving a member of the campus community, your instructor is required to report this information to the Title IX Coordinator, Janice Robinson. She will treat this information as private, but will need to follow up with you and possibly look into the matter. The Ombuds Oﬃcer is a conﬁdential resource available for students, staﬀ and faculty, including matters concerning “Gender-based Misconduct”. “Gender-based misconduct” includes sexual assault, stalking, sexual harassment, dating violence, domestic violence, sexual Home Curriculum Policies Assignment Assessment Resources Adult Learning & Leadership ▮ TC POLICIES (cont.) exploitation, and gender-based harassment. For more information, see Columbia University’s Sexual Respect policy . The TC Ombuds Oﬃcer may be reached at ombuds@tc.columbia.edu or 212-678-4169. Emergency Plan TC is prepared for a wide range of emergencies. After declaring an emergency situation, the President/Provost will provide the community with critical information on procedures and available assistance. If travel to campus is not feasible, instructors will facilitate academic continuity through Canvas and other technologies, if possible. It is the student’s responsibility to ensure that they are set to receive email notiﬁcations from TC and communications from their instructor at their TC email address. Within the ﬁrst two sessions for the course, students are expected to review and be prepared to follow the instructions stated in the emergency plan. The plan may consist of downloading or obtaining all available readings for the course or the instructor may provide other instructions. Academic Integrity Students who intentionally submit work either not their own or without clear attribution to the original source, fabricate data or other information, engage in cheating, or misrepresentation of academic records may be subject to charges. Sanctions may include dismissal from the college for violation of the TC principles of academic and professional integrity fundamental to the purpose of the College. Home Curriculum Policies Assignment Assessment Resources Adult Learning & Leadership